Postman collections and variables
💡 - Main ideas
You can save requests so that you can re-use them later on.
All requests need to be added to a Postman collection.
Typically you will have a Postman collection for each API.
We are storing the base address of the API in a collection variable called baseUrl.
Our saved baseUrl will be displayed as {{baseUrl}} in the address bar.
Variables allow us to avoid repeating the same information.
Variables allow us to easily make changes.
A Postman variable has two states
INITIAL VALUE - This will be available to others if you share the collection.
CURRENT VALUE - This is private to you and this is the value that Postman uses.
Lesson 7 - Query parameters
💡 - Main ideas
JSON is the most popular format that APIs use to send data.
Query parameters start after the ? in the URL.
example : {{baseUrl}}/books?type=fiction
The format is key=value
Muliple query parameters are delimited in the URL with an &.
example: foo=1&bar=2
Depending on the API, some query parameters can be optional or mandatory.
A response status 400 indicates an issue with the request data.
You can enable and disable parameters by clicking the checkbox associated with each key-value pair.
Lesson 8 - Assignment
Study the API documentation and use the limit query parameter in the /books endpoint.
Try out different values.
Can you make the API return a status code 400?
Lesson 9 - Path variables
💡 - Main ideas
:bookId is a path variable in the URL.
This endpoint allows us to specify a value that changes all the time, depending on the book.
:bookId is just a placeholder and does not get sent.
You can use path variables in combination with query parameters (if the API accepts this).
Lesson 10 - POST request / API Authentication
💡 - Main ideas
A POST request allows you to send data in the request body.
The endpoint for submitting orders requires authentication.
Some APIs/endpoints are public and require no authentication.
Other APIs/endpoints are private and require authentication.
An access token is temporary password generated by the API.
To send JSON, select the POST request method and from the Body select Raw and from the list JSON.
Lesson 11 - JSON format
💡 - Main ideas
You need to specify valid JSON, otherwise the server won't understand your request.
Use double-quotes "" for strings, separate key-value pairs with a comma sign ,
Numbers, booleans don't need to be between quotes.
Postman will indicate when your JSON is invalid.
Lesson 12 - Assignment
Create the POST request to order a book.
Try ordering a book that is not in stock.
Lesson 13 - Random test data
💡 - Main ideas
You can use a special type of Postman variable to generate random data
example: {{$randomFullName}}
To inspect the request body you can use the Postman console.
📚 - Resources
Dynamic variables in Postman
Lesson 14 - Is Postman the right tool for me?
💡 - Main ideas
Postman is a tool for dealing with APIs.
Postman cannot work with User Interfaces, click buttons and fill out forms.
Postman is not a performance testing tool.
Postman can be used for security testing but has not been designed for this purpose.
Lesson 15 - Viewing existing orders
💡 - Main ideas
Using the GET request method on the orders endpoint will give us a list of orders.
Using the POST request method on the same endpoint will let us create a new order.
Lesson 16 - Assignment
Look at the API documentation and identify the endpoint that would allow you to see a single order.
Lesson 17 - PATCH request
💡 - Main ideas
A PATCH request is typically used for updating existing data.
A PATCH usually does a partial update, by changing only some of the properties.
Lesson 18 - DELETE request
💡 - Main ideas
A DELETE request is used for deleting data.
If you try to get the same data with a GET request, you will get a 404 Not Found status code.
